A: McKinney Flavelle's Hot Commodity Podcast Series. Empowering clients with commercial intelligence, supply chain expertise, and risk management solutions. Good afternoon, everybody. My name is Mike Coughlin, President and CEO of McKinney Flavelle, and today is January 30th, 2026. And welcome to our Hot Commodity Podcast Series. Yes, I said it. January is almost over in 2026. Can you believe it? I think one guy in Chicago can believe it, and he's hoping that spring comes very soon 'cause it's like in single digits. That's Shawn Bingham, our Director of Risk Management. Hello, Shawn.
B: Hello. Happy January is over. Absolutely. It's been, you know, the two worst months of the year.
A: Yeah.
[52849 - 81216] Speaker B: 'Cause I don't even look at the temperatures and stuff in the winter because there's nothing to look at. It's always bad. But January and February are awful. Yeah. So the way I look at this today is halfway through the two worst months of the year. And, uh, so, you know, 28— what are we, 28 days, 29 days? I think we're still 28 times for February this month or this year. But, uh, yeah, halfway, halfway done. Let's get it over with. Let's move on. Let's have some warm weather.
[81604 - 151280] Speaker A: Yes, I agree. And I, you know, all those out there, I mean, we've had quite a storm come through, and, and, uh, thankfully, uh, for, you know, many of us, it wasn't too impactful. But I'll tell you, for our clients, there's a lot of things to monitor, discuss, and talk to us about. I mean, it goes from just the impact or potential impact to the cane crop down in the Southeast, how it might impact wheat. So all of our clients are hearing all that great news, but also it goes back to supply chain too, understanding issues in supply chain with various suppliers, etc. So, you know, it's just part of our value of what we provide people. But, you know, today, Shawn, what I thought we would talk about is something, you know, you do a very good job talking about the economy and the Fed. I think you're rated the number one most exciting analyst in risk management and the Fed in the industry, voted by me, because you take a lot of boring information and not only make it informative but fun. So, I thought today we would talk about the Federal Open Market Committee. Committee and what they did this week.
[151520 - 155544] Speaker B: Yeah, let's do that. Is there an award, by the way? There is.
[155688 - 160946] Speaker A: It's in the mail. It's in the mail. And it is a Seattle Seahawks—
[160946 - 161427] Speaker B: Major award.
[161571 - 164120] Speaker A: Seattle Seahawks jacket.
[164601 - 165467] Speaker B: Tickets to the Super Bowl?
[165547 - 166942] Speaker A: Tickets to the Super Bowl. Yes.
[168032 - 168336] Speaker B: Yes.
[168994 - 171655] Speaker A: There's two chairs outside the front gate for you.
[171975 - 173354] Speaker B: There we go. Awesome.
[173803 - 174139] Speaker A: Awesome.
[174540 - 175967] Speaker B: And I have to work. And have to work.
[176064 - 210127] Speaker A: You do have to direct traffic. All right. But so we'll talk about that in just a second. But for those that don't know, maybe you're a new listener to McKinney Flavelle. Shawn does an amazing job with many of our clients on risk management. And for you IQ subscribers, there's some information either daily or monthly or weekly. And I thought, Shawn, just real quick, for the day you do a daily technical outlook and money flow, those two specifically. Talk just real quick what those are and why they're important for our clients.
[210561 - 366798] Speaker B: No, absolutely. So obviously McKinney is well known in the industry for commercial intelligence. That's kind of been our, I don't know, call it your cornerstone of our business for a long time. And just the word risk management, I think it's— I'm not sure people— everybody uses it. Everybody says they have risk management, but We talk to a lot of clients and I think everyone seems to have a different view on what risk management is, how does it work, blah, blah, blah. And so way beyond the scope of this podcast, but there's a lot more to it than just the words. And some of the things, like you said, you wanted to highlight some of the things that we do that are outside of the commercial intelligence realm. Are, you know, every day I write, you mentioned that the Daily Technical Outlook, it's a, I don't know, what, 10, 15-minute read, hits your major, you know, your corn, your soy complex, wheat, energy, livestock. Do a chart of the day every day, which is just whatever happens to get my fancy. You know, it could be anything from politics to economy to weather. It's a great way to start your day, I think, as far as just getting a handle, not just, you know, what's going on fundamentally in the market, but technically as well. Because a lot of these markets are driven by technicals. And to that point, we do, you know, I do a money flow report that is on the IQ platform. Try to get it done every Monday. Sometimes it's a Tuesday thing, but it's based off, it's basically a deep dive into the Commitments of Traders report. And you might say, well, why is that important? Well, I would say I told this to another client the other day and she almost fell out of her chair. You know, of the roughly $350 billion of assets under management by commodity traders, more than 95% of that is, is machine-driven, technical, technically driven trading. And so if you're not paying attention to what they're doing and following those flows as well as the index money, you're missing a huge portion of what, what is driving markets beyond, beyond the fundamentals. And so we do a lot of stuff. It's a lot of data science driven information. It's not— I'm not trying to guess at stuff. We use a lot, a lot of data, a lot of, a lot of sophisticated statistic analysis stuff to, to make projections and things like that. But yeah, you don't— if you're not a risk management client, Reach out to Sean. Yeah.
[367023 - 367360] Speaker A: Yeah.
[367681 - 368531] Speaker B: Or Mike or anybody.
[368707 - 375928] Speaker A: Yeah. Yeah. He doesn't have a dartboard and he doesn't throw darts to make up what he's got or to tell you what he's going to say.
[376201 - 377597] Speaker B: Not often. Correct.
[380357 - 409210] Speaker A: Well, hey, let's dive into it. Let's talk about the Fed. And just to put it on a tee for you, they had to make some decisions this week. They had their meeting and they were trying to figure out what to do on rates. Yep. And you're going to tell us what they did. Are you surprised by it? What does this mean for the US economy or commodities? And why was it just— who are those two people that actually voted to lower rates? Maybe I'll start with that.
[410319 - 587270] Speaker B: So, yeah, interesting week for— with regard to the Federal Reserve. We'll start with the FOMC on Wednesday. It was It was widely believed that the Fed was not going to do anything with rates at this meeting. So that's— they did not. They left the funds rate between 3.5 and 3.75, that range. That was not really— no one was really expecting anything there. But, you know, the guys that follow the Fed like I do, you know, you parse all of their statements, you kind of look for literally tiny little nuances. Did they add a piece to their statement? Did they they take it out, and then even more importantly is the press conference after. And so in the actual press release, a couple things that I noted was some language that was taken out from the last time talking about employment, you know, the downside risk to employment being a little bit higher than what they believe their other side of their mandate was, which is inflation. And so at the December meeting, they were definitely a little bit more concerned about the way that unemployment was moving. They took that statement out. And then during the press conference, again, you know, when you're talking about the Fed, just the littlest nuances can make a big difference because the market tries to read into all this stuff. Fed Powell made a point to say that the, you know, their mandate of maximum employment and low inflation. They believe that the, you know, prior to this meeting, they believed that those risks were more elevated. And he made a point at this meeting or press conference to say that, that, that those both sides of that risk has diminished. So I think what he was saying for the most part is the, the uncertainty you know, surrounding employment and inflation has diminished on both sides. That's primarily why they believe, they felt the need to leave rates unchanged. Like you said, there were a couple dissenters. Two of the members wanted to still cut a quarter. On that note, interesting that we got the PPI report today, and good thing they did not cut rates, Mike, because that report was quite a bit hotter than the market was looking for. So on producer prices, let me pull it up here where— there we go. So producer prices ex food and energy, but including the trade services, jumped to 3.3. And I think if you add, uh, if you take out the trade services, it was hot as, uh, 3.6 or 3.7 on the headline. So these are the highest producer inflation levels we've seen in 1, 2, 3, about 5 months.
[588300 - 590357] Speaker A: So does that— did that surprise you?
[591048 - 747734] Speaker B: Uh, yes, it did actually, because we— even the Fed noted, uh, in, in the conference that inflation was becoming more stable. It's not where they want it to be, but, uh, I mean, I'll read right from this report. It says there are some signs of stabilization. So it's they said that, you know, inflation remains elevated, still above their 2% target. But now this kind of would suggest maybe inflation isn't as stable as they suggested just, just on Wednesday, uh, upticking on PPI. So I honestly, I, I don't think we're going to get any kind of a rate change until at least June. I say June because Chairman Powell's term ends in May, and I think he is now good with, as well as most of the committee members, to leave rates unchanged until we get someone new. That's the other thing that happened this week or yesterday. Trump announced his choice for the Fed governor, and that is Kevin Warsh. And what was interesting about that is pretty much everybody believed that Trump was going to put someone at the head of the Fed that was going to be much more dovish, cut rates like he thinks they should be cut. And he did exactly the opposite. He actually put someone in who has been a noted hawk. He was a Fed member. He was— he was on the board of the FOMC, I believe, 2006 to '11. I think he is a noted hawk. He is very well respected in the economic community and in Washington. He spent a lot of time in Washington. So I think the market is really going to applaud this choice because there's been a lot of talk about the Fed's independence. You know, that's really, really important. I mean, you know, the markets want to believe that the decisions that the chairman is making aren't political decisions. They're based on what's best for the public. And Powell made a point repeatedly in his press conference to say that, that, that, I mean, he, he, they asked him a lot of questions about politics, of which he did not answer any, but he did on the, on the point of the Fed's independence point out that it was really important that the Fed remain independent, that it wasn't seen as a, as a, as a wing of, of any political administration or party. So, uh, kudos to President Trump on that one. I, I don't think a lot of people— I mean, I know his name was being bantered about, but I don't think he was at the top of too many people's lists.
[747846 - 756120] Speaker A: So, well, it sounds like that's a good thing if he's working more towards the overall outlook versus something political.
[756505 - 821127] Speaker B: Absolutely. I mean, he is definitely more of a— he's definitely one of those governors that's more concerned about inflation. He has been actually critical of the Fed at times because of not monitoring inflation. And what's funny is while, while I think the market and everyone will applaud this decision, the stock market's down today pretty good. Dow's down about 4, you know, 430, 440. And the reason is that because he's a hawk, so he's not going to lower rates right away. And I saw— I think the idea of the 50 basis points, I haven't checked the funds market this morning after that announcement, but I'd be willing to bet the market is backing off. You know, we were talking about another Market's been pricing about another 50 basis points of cuts the rest of this year. And I think we're probably going to be leaning closer to maybe only one more cut. And I know there are some economists out there who believe the next move really could be a rate hike. And after seeing that PPI number—
[821127 - 821239] Speaker A: wow.
[821768 - 946506] Speaker B: Yeah, hold on to your hat. I think it's— that's not out of the realm of possibility. So what it probably means, you know, as you get to the point, Sean, what does all this mean? What it probably means is steady rates for longer. We're probably now at a level, you know, this kind of 3.5 to 3.75. I think the Fed is now going to probably ride that rate for at least in the first half of the year, maybe the entire year. And especially if we see any, you know, one month does not a trend make, but we've kind of been upticking in that PPI for a little bit. Consumer prices have been a little bit more stable, but Not to mention, Mike, as you know, a lot going on too that the Fed's got to worry about. We're— we are going to go into another government shutdown as of right now. That seems unavoidable. How long that lasts, who knows? But tomorrow morning, you know, the government's going to be in another partial shutdown unless Congress does something different. So I don't think it'll last as long as the last one. Hopefully not, because, you know, ultimately we don't get a lot of USDA data, and we kind of, you know, having to fly a little bit blind. Uh, we've got, you know, situation going on in Iran. We don't know what's going to happen there. We've got this whole tariff, uh, thing that's been tied up in the Supreme Court. We thought we'd have an answer for that, but we still don't know which way they're going to lean. So I, again, I think all of these uncertainties are just going to point to the Fed probably saying, hey, too much out there. To be wiggling around one way or another. Let's just, let's let the rate sit where it is until we have a better handle, uh, on the direction of this economy, which I think for the most part is, uh, is expanding. We had a, we had a really, we had a good GDP number here recently. It was 4.4. Uh, we're expecting another, another, you know, fourth quarter good number. So I think the Fed will be happy just to, to sit, uh, and, and do nothing. So That's kind of the, the roundup on all the Fed news this week.
[946811 - 975517] Speaker A: I do have a question for you because for our listeners here, you know, okay, you said that rates will hold steady. So what, what impact, obviously, you know, we're going to those that are following commodities, what is that impact to commodities? They're going to be looking at the dollar and where that might go. And so what is your, your opinion on how these holding of rates might impact our listeners that are buying commodities?
[975629 - 1050649] Speaker B: Well, I think, I think holding the rate and then again, this, this nomination for— I mean, he still has to be confirmed. Sure. But I think that'll fly through. But, but the nomination of Warsh for the chairmanship, this, this is definitely leaning in the other direction of more rate cuts. So the biggest impact is probably going to be a stronger dollar. Now. I mean, the dollar is at a 4-year low as of the other day. And of course, that is bullish commodities in the sense that it boosts our export markets. So it's been, you know, we've had a pretty good bump up here recently in corn, wheat, you know, edible oils. You know, everything has kind of had a little bit of a rise here recently. Some of that is definitely attributed to a lower dollar. I think there's— you could argue that some of the— all of this uncertainty, there may be some investment assets that are moving into commodities just for the safety of commodities. Some, you know, so a little bit of money out of bonds, out of stocks, and into commodities, a good inflation hedge. But I think the long-run impact of these decisions will be hopefully to put a put a floor underneath the dollar.
[1051018 - 1051323] Speaker A: Got it.
[1051419 - 1059656] Speaker B: And turn that ship around. So I think that's probably in the long run might be the biggest impact for commodities.
[1059993 - 1094143] Speaker A: Got it. So, okay, great. Well, thank you, Shawn. We're going to go ahead and wrap this one up. As I always say, live with an attitude of gratitude. Enjoy every minute, moment with your friends and family. Don't let it pass you by. And until our next podcast, take care, everybody. Go Seahawks! That concludes this Hot Commodity Podcast episode. Log into McKinney-Flavelle's IQ Ingredient Intelligence platform for in-depth information on commodities, ingredients, and market intelligence. If you're not a subscriber, visit McKinney-Flavelle.com to learn more.