Mike Caughlan: McKinney Flavelle's Hot Commodity Podcast Series. Empowering clients with commercial intelligence, supply chain expertise, and risk management solutions. Good afternoon, everybody. My name is Mike Coughlin, President and CEO of McKinney Flavelle, and today is March 10th, 2026. And welcome to our Hot Commodity Podcast Series. It's not Friday, everybody. It's Tuesday. And you're listening to us, not talking to us, because it is a WASDI day, a holy WASDI day. And as usual, we are going to give you a recap of the WASDI report from 3 folks that I admire. And that is, yeah, yeah, Nicole Thomas, Vice President, Information Sales and Services. Hello, Nicole.
Nicole Thomas: Hello, Mike. I admire you too. Reciprocity.
Mike Caughlan: Virtual hug.
Nicole Thomas: Yes.
Mike Caughlan: We also have Eric Thornton, Vice President, McKinney Flavelle. Hello, Eric.
Eric Thornton: Hello, Mike.
Nicole Thomas: Hey, everyone.
Mike Caughlan: And last but not least, somebody that's so sweet, and that's Kevin Combs.
Kevin Combs: Thank you, Mike. Makes me feel so heartwarming to know that I am sweet. Thank you. Yes.
Mike Caughlan: If this is your first time listening to our podcast, that's Kevin Combs. He's Vice President of McKinney Flavelle. We got a lot of vice presidents. Last year.
Kevin Combs: But hello, Mike. Hello, everybody. And Eric, I admire you too, because I think they're leaving you out.
Mike Caughlan: Feel the love. Feel the love.
Eric Thornton: It's good to be admired.
Mike Caughlan: Hey team, I thought we would cover the WASDE report today, but before we do, I want to bring up a webinar that folks can register for, and that's coming out, uh, we're having that on Wednesday, March 25th at 11 AM Pacific Standard Time. You can register at our website at mckinney-fladel.com. It's our seasonal market outlook webinar where we're going to be covering corn, soy complex, sugar, and the wheat markets. And boy, I tell you, there's a planting report that's coming out at the end of this month. And I would love to get your guys' thoughts, but I'm not going to ask you today because that would be stealing your thunder for this webinar. So go ahead and register at our website again, mckinney-flavel.com. Now on with it. I would like to start with you, Nicole, and talk about corn and soybeans, then we'll shift over to Eric, and then we'll end up once Kevin has finished those donuts with you, Kevin.
Kevin Combs: Perfect.
Mike Caughlan: Excellent. All right, Nicole, take it away. What'd they do on corn and soybean?
Nicole Thomas: Well, you know, I think we're gonna have to wait until that webinar to really get anything new of interest as far as the fundamentals are concerned anyway. And we are definitely looking forward to the Prospective Plantings report and the Grain Stocks report so we can get a handle on consumption thus far this year. And what the at least supply situation may look like in '26-'27. Oh my goodness, '26-'27. It's here. Anyway, for corn, nothing burger. Not too much to say there. For the US market, no change there. I mean, we're looking at ending stocks remaining near roughly 2.1 billion bushels. Exports have been strong, but that's already been noted on the balance sheet at 3.3 billion bushels. We're pretty solid on at least what we think final production and supply scenario is for '25-'26. So I mean, from the domestic balance sheet standpoint, nothing new. On the global side, we did see some, I guess I would call them offsetting changes. Brazilian production up 1 million tons, now pegged at 132. Pretty sizable crop there. Argentinian production down by a million tons to 52 million, still good relative to some other years we've had drought impact or weather issues that created problems. And other than that, it was just some, some change in, you know, kind of international trade patterns. But like I said, generally speaking, offsetting changes. And at the end of the day, we saw global corn ending stocks just revised just slightly lower, roughly 289 million tons. So, you know, pretty much the same scenario we've been looking at. And, you know, far, far more impactful things outside of this balance sheet as far as where price— corn prices may go, at least in the near term, and potentially as we kind of move into our seasonal stretch of strength. Month that we typically see there. So, uh, again, on the corn, you know, not much new. Wait to the end of the month here, see what we get on those upcoming reports to give us some additional indication on the fundamental side. Now, for the soy complex, to a great degree, not too much different there either, uh, except for one thing I want to highlight here in a minute. Uh, let's start with soybeans though. Imports were raised by 5 million bushels, enough to offset a 5 million bushel increase to crush that's now projected at about 2.57 billion bushels. And at least based on what was cited, could be a little interest in soybean meal. But I would probably align that a little closer to just the idea that crush margins have been great for the domestic industry. Even as, you know, futures have increased for soybeans, basis is more reflective of what the reality is for supply. And with that, as I was trained in my merchandising years many, many moons ago, that basis is very important to the bottom line of the crush margin. So in that sense, definitely incentivizes these crushers to, to keep their foot on the gas, so to speak, when it comes to crush. Now, where things were interesting for me, and let me just say 350 million bushels, that's our ending stocks number for the US for soybeans. But what caught my attention was the soybean oil balance sheet and some of the changes there. Now, one expected, biofuel production usage, I guess I should say, for biofuel production of soybean or usage of soybean oil for biofuel production. Third time's the charm, was reduced by 800 million pounds to 14 billion. And of course, like I said, more or less expected. We knew the first 3 months of the marketing year, we did not see as much in the way of that consumption of soybean oil, bio— bio-based diesel production, period, uh, was lagging a bit. And as we've seen for the last few years now, uh, greater usage of some of the waste greases there as well. So that one, okay, well, expected that. But what caught my attention was the upward revision to soybean oil usage for food, uh, which was increased by 750 million pounds. To well above 15 billion pounds of usage. And again, this one is a bit perplexing to me because it seems to run counter to what we are seeing with both economic and food trends, both in the sense of weakening economy and that more folks maybe thinking twice about, you know, going out for that meal and eating more at home. And we know at-home usage of oil is a little broader and where we've seen the growth has really been in stuff like olive and avocado. And then also from just the, again, to kind of segue into that, these food trends that would also suggest that if anything, at best, maybe that soybean oil usage is a little flat, may even be declining. And then of course, number 3, as always, my heart goes out to all my soybean oil users. I don't know how I keep finding myself in this position of the Grim Reaper of markets, but we have all watched what has transpired with soybean oil futures pulled considerably higher via crude oil and some of the things going on in the energy complex, which, granted, could be short-term and arguably isn't being as impactful to the cost bottom line right now. As folks, you know, kind of stand on the sidelines to see how things shake out before extending any kind of coverage of soybean oil futures. But if this is something that were to be prolonged, for instance, we are to see crude oil prices above $80, $85, $90 a barrel for any extended period of time, it's going to keep that soybean oil price elevated. And even if we don't see it in terms of reduced consumption within the US, you could certainly make the argument that something like palm oil becomes far more appetizing, no pun intended, for usage on the global scene of things. So that one was interesting. All in all, though, along with a modest reduction to soybean oil production of about 20 million pounds, we actually saw ending stocks for soybean oil go up £30 million to £1.782 billion. And like I said, I would argue that number should be a little higher. £750 million upward revision is kind of, kind of a lot in a short period of time. Even if they had inched it up, you know, £100 million here, £200 million here, then I could see that. But with that reduction to the biofuel usage number, can only imagine if they had not change that, what that would have done to soybean oil ending stocks, and how that, at least from a fundamental standpoint, could have created some pressure for prices. And again, even if not seen in the futures, maybe seen in basis, and also explains why our basis has been relatively tame for the last 6 to 12 months despite everything going on or expectations for biofuel. So I will wrap it up with saying, as far as the global soybean balance sheet is concerned, still looking, looking pretty good that Brazil's crop is now estimated to be around 178 million tons. And you can certainly find some local commentary within Brazil that suggests that it might even be a bit higher, although the pace of harvest has been really slow to a degree, kind of would expect that with such a huge crop. Uh, but nonetheless, bottom line is ample global soybean stocks right now, at least on paper. It's a matter where a lot of those stocks are that I think, uh, could, could, you know, maybe support, uh, some price action down the road. But for now, that's where we sit. So as far as grain and— or corn and soybean and the soy complex is concerned, you know, uh, not anything that was was too earth-shattering again, other than that surprising change to food use for soybean oil. So that gets it.
Mike Caughlan: Excellent. Thank you, Nicole. I can't wait for that webinar. Is there going to be more corn or more soybean? Where's the shift go? Don't answer that. All right. Let's shift over to Eric. Let's talk about wheat. What'd they do on wheat?
Eric Thornton: No change. Back to you, Mike.
Mike Caughlan: Oh, wow.
Eric Thornton: Oh, oh, oh, oh, sorry.
Mike Caughlan: Literally. Oh, wheat.
Kevin Combs: Yeah.
Nicole Thomas: Okay.
Eric Thornton: Yeah, if you blink, you miss nothing, is what I was trying to illustrate there in an awkward silent moment. But hey, let's, let's give the listeners something to digest. Because like I said, there was no change to the US balance sheet, still looking at an ending stocks for the marketing year '25-'26 at 931 million bushels. They didn't even adjust anything within the individual wheat class categories. So literally nothing to speak of on the US side of the equation. I would say maybe I was a bit surprised they have not yet updated the export category for demand. You know, maybe they're just waiting another month. But sitting at 900 million bushels, we are still seeing a pace of shipments plus remaining sales on the books that indicate maybe a little higher expectations. You know, 20-30 million bushel increase, I think, is certainly reasonable just based on that current pace with 2.5 months left in the wheat marketing year. So, you know, maybe that's the one category to watch moving forward. But really, all in all, you know, the '25-'26 balance sheet is pretty much set in stone. And everything's going to be, of course, turning attention towards crop conditions. You know, we're doing our rain dance and definitely looking for some moisture in parts of the Southern Plains and hard red winter wheat country. You know, everywhere else is picking up a bit of moisture. So becoming more of a weather market now. And obviously, you know, wheat is on a technical rally in recent weeks following the Middle East situation and the run-up in crude oil, as I'm sure we're all following, tracking, and, you know, wheat is certainly following that, that rallying market and the energy space. So, you know, fundamentally, not too much to talk about there. Quickly over to the global balance sheet as well, you know, really nothing to speak of either. We just had a minor half a million ton reduction in stocks, a little bit of an uptick to demand. A minor increase in production that wasn't able to offset about a 1 million ton increase to demand. So again, we're just talking about fraction of changes to supply and demand, which puts us at an ending stocks of about 277 million tons. So again, still seeing a nice surplus in stocks of about 18 million tons versus last year, the first surplus since the 2019-20 crop year. So globally, you know, again, I would say we're pretty much done with making any material changes. And same thing, they're going to be focusing on the other Northern Hemisphere wheat-producing regions across the globe as we are now coming out of winter and into spring. And, you know, these next 2 months go a long way to making the next winter wheat crop, which will impact the 2026-27 balance sheet. So with that, again, I'll keep it short. No change. Keep an eye though on, yeah, obviously the crude oil situation and conflict in the Middle East and how wheat responds to that. You know, I think right now buyers are kind of sitting on the sidelines watching, you know, this rally in wheat sort of run its course. And, you know, it may take some time and maybe some lasting impacts. But right now, I think folks are covered well through the first half and some even through Q3. And people are just going to kind of sit tight, wait through, through this next few months potentially.
Mike Caughlan: Got it. That's a great recap. And you did well for having not much happening in the report. We do get that from time to time. You gave us a good outlook of what to watch out for. So thank you, Eric.
Nicole Thomas: Hey, you're welcome.
Mike Caughlan: All right. Let's shift over to Kevin. And Kevin, coming off the sweetener colloquium, we did give folks a recap from that. I'm curious to see what the, the USDA did here. And I'm curious to what you think they— for Florida, we heard reports of a freeze and that impact and then the always interesting demand figure. So turn it over to you, Kevin.
Kevin Combs: All right. Well, you pretty much nailed the big changes right there, although there were some offsetting changes on the import figure. But we were anxiously awaiting to see what the assessment was on Florida following the freeze. You know, we know Louisiana, their production was pretty much wrapped up before the freeze. So there was no impact to this year's crop. Obviously, we'll be anxious to see how the crop's responding for next year there. But in Florida, you know, they produce all the way up into April. So their crop was, you know, maybe 60-65% complete when the frost hit. And the damage was fairly extensive. The USDA lowered cane production 121,000 tons this month, which doesn't sound a lot. But they actually cited in their commentary that the total damage was actually 240,000 almost 243,000 tons or 11% of the anticipated crop. However, they're only reflecting 121,000 tons because they had inclinations that there was going to be quite a bit of damage once the assessment was done from the freeze. And so they did not reflect the higher number they would have put out in February if they didn't take that into account. So they had some foresight there. But anyway, 1.956 million tons out of Florida. That's actually still better than we were at last year. So it's not a complete and total failure by any stretch, but obviously very disappointing when they were looking at a potential crop that was going to be, you know, well above the last February estimate of 2.082 if they didn't have that freeze hit them. So anyway, I think, you know, the story on cane is going to be going forward is, you know, here we've got, you know, a fair amount of damage for this year in Florida. But what does next year's crops look like, both in Florida and Louisiana, from all the cold spells we had in early February? On the import side, the USDA raised imports a total of 184,000 tons. Most of that comes into the high-tier category. That was up 133,000 tons or 134,000 tons, excuse me, and split both raw and refined. On the raw side, they basically saw, I believe it was 43,000 tons additional come in in the month. So basically they're just as it comes in on raw sugar, they add it to the total. On the refined side, they do forecast forward a little bit and we'll take a look. And a couple of months ago, I think they lowered it 25,000 tons with tariffs having a potential impact on organic flows. However, they offset that and now are back to where they were, square one, when they first did their estimates for '25-'26. And that's putting organic sugar at 236,000 tons in total. But they also, you know, see the refined sugar imports, they raise that number 60, almost 66,000 tons just based on pace to date. And then based on where they're at, they're basically taking half the total and estimating it forward. So, you know, I think high-tier imports are now at $6.42. Last year, they ended up at $9.80. You know, I think we're still going to be heading for a number that's somewhere in between $6.42 and $9.80, and probably closer to the higher number at the end of the day, you know, once we see final numbers for '25-'26. So certainly something to keep an eye on. And on the delivery side, you know, when USDA sees all this sugar coming in, and, you know, they have to make the assumption that if people are bringing sugar in, it's going to be consumed. So with higher imports, they decided to hit the deliveries for food use category higher and raise that by 117,000 tons. So we're now showing it still a negative number for food use by 1.4%. But, you know, that's not a very big decline considering what we've seen and demand and seeing, you know, CPG companies citing lower volumes, etc. And of course, GLP-1 use and the food stamp programs not allowing high caloric beverages and some other things there. So it's going to be really interesting to see how these numbers play out once we start seeing more information. And, you know, from a delivery standpoint, you know, beet sugar deliveries are up, but we've only got one month under the lower pricing for 2026. I'm really going to like to see the data once we get through maybe the first quarter and start seeing March data on the SMD report and see how that plays. But cane deliveries are down. And then the other category there, the non-reporter imports, that looks to be up a little bit as well. So definitely a category to watch is, you know, how deliveries play out over the course of this year. Net-net for the US, what does it all mean? Well, we ended up with ending stocks down 62,000 tons. Reflecting the stocks-to-use ratio moving from 15.9% down to 15.2%. But I think, Mike, when you see these numbers come out later, you know, we're going to see higher stocks than what we're currently showing because of the high-tier imports. And what's really going to be interesting, of course, then is what happens this summer. You know, beet sugar, we're having a good crop. They're trying to move a lot of that, but You know, as we've talked about, stocks on the beet side were close to 400,000 tons above kind of your optimal transitional volume from one crop year to the next. So of course, all these stocks and everything else could take a big change this summer when we start seeing non-recourse loans come due. So never a dull moment. Never a dull moment. That's what we love about sugar. Yeah, it's sweet and it's always changing.
Mike Caughlan: There he goes. He wrapped it up for us. All right, everybody. Thank you to our analysts here for the great recap today. As I always like to say, live with an attitude of gratitude, enjoy every minute moment with your friends and family. Until our next podcast, take care, everybody. That concludes this Hot Commodity Podcast episode. Log into McKinney Flavelle's IQ Ingredient Intelligence platform for in-depth information on commodity opportunities, ingredients, and market intelligence. If you're not a subscriber, visit mckinney-favel.com to learn more.