Nicole Thomas: Good afternoon, everybody. My name is Nicole Thomas, VP of Information Services at McKinney Flavelle. Today is Friday, February 20th, 2026. And welcome to our Hot Commodity Podcast. Today I'll have my partner in crime, my best buddy, my person who also suffers through grain and oilseed markets with me all the time, Mr. Eric Thornton, VP at McKinney-Flavelle. How you doing, Eric?
Eric Thornton: Doing good, Nicole. How we doing today?
Nicole Thomas: I'm ready for the weekend and maybe enjoy something later on today to enjoy this weather. We're having great weather, sir.
Eric Thornton: It looks like it. Yeah, we're—
Nicole Thomas: how about you?
Eric Thornton: Not the same in the Northeast, especially the last 2 months. But obviously, like me and many others at McKinney, we'll be going to the Sweeteners Colloquium. Yeah, I'll be leaving tomorrow. And man, it looks like high 80s in Orlando tomorrow. So that's a way better forecast than 40 degrees and rain right now. It's about what I'm looking at.
Nicole Thomas: Yeah, I'm sure there are quite a few folks that are ready for this trip just to get, uh, get out of the snow or the cold and experience a little sunshine.
Eric Thornton: Yep.
Nicole Thomas: And sugar. Sunshine and sugar. How could you ask for anything else? Now today, Eric and I are going to, uh, tag team some, just some factors, some, you know, market callouts for a few of the commodity slash ingredient spaces that we follow here at McKinney Flavelle. To get people ready for, you know, what could really drive prices here in the next month or so. But before we get to that, of course, I have to do a little shameless promotion and start by again emphasizing our IQ platform and whether you're a client on that platform or not, you will not want to miss the exciting update launching March 2nd, right around the corner. Which includes new dynamic interactive tools such as indexes, calculators, and a bevy of useful interactive maps when it comes to, you know, more of the supply side for some of these ingredients. So for our clients, be sure to log in and check that out. Again, launch date is March 2nd. And if you're not a client, you should be first and foremost. but you can certainly reach out to us for a demo. Uh, just check out the McKinney-Flavel website, www.mckinney-flavel.com, or Google it. Come on, it's 2026. Just Google us, go to LinkedIn, use the social media, whatever you need. You can, you can find us. Uh, and then just as importantly, for those that are also going to the Sweetener Colloquium with Eric, Say hi to Eric. Say hi to the nearly entire McKinney-Flavelle crew. But also be sure to check out Craig from McKinney, who will be speaking on the, on the subject of corn derivatives. He's on a panel there. You're definitely going to want to see that too. He always has some pretty insightful food for thought in this marvelous food industry. So with that, let's get on to the podcast and the material these folks are here to talk about. What do you think, Eric? Maybe, maybe toss it off with a little wheat and then we'll go to the soy, soy oil and corn side of things and then maybe finish up with you on the sugar. How's that sound? Perfect.
Eric Thornton: Yeah. Let me— let's go with that agenda. And I think wheat is actually a pretty good starting point to just address, you know, what to watch for. And just a quick few factors, I would really say be watching now, here and now, because wheat has certainly awoken from its winter slumber, it appears, as we're now seeing prices pushed to their highest levels since March of 2025. So, you know, fresh 6-month highs in the case of all the wheat contracts, but certainly seeing more of an uplift here with the winter wheat side of things, KC and Chicago wheat, probably some speculative-induced liquidation of a, you know, hefty net short position that they've been sitting on for quite a while now. And I think, you know, for most wheat buyers, this is certainly, you know, maybe having a little bit of a closer eye on things to come. Again, I would say it's more likely just a slight mixture of some potential bullish headwinds related to weather or conditions in the US or even in the Black Sea. They just had a recent cold snap come through. So not uncommon this time of year, right? We start to get a little more interested in weather. And without going into all those details, I would just again alert folks to be watching here and now for certain. Most folks as well have been covered. For the first half for a little while now. And, you know, I think it's really just trying to maybe keep a closer eye now on Q3 or what may transpire in the coming weeks and months. But with that, I'd say the longer-term view that I still have, and maybe the other, you know, driver, maybe I'm segmenting it more in a near-term and long-term component, but I still view wheat as bearish. In the long run. You know, we're not going to see, at least likely to see, a significant uptick in demand in the wheat balance sheet. You know, we just don't have any push for biofuels or anything like that like we do in the corn and soybean side of things, which, you know, maybe that's something you'll touch on when you get to soybean complex. But, you know, wheat's probably going to only see any sort of volatility in demand via exports, and right now even before this most recent move higher, the U.S. wheat price in the global export market was the highest out of all the key producer exporters. So that doesn't really bode well, right, for seeing an uptick in demand. And again, barring any weather issue, which, okay, we could always have, you know, this market still appears pretty bearish, you know, oversupplied in both the U.S. and global landscape. You know, we can probably afford a little bit of a pullback in the global balance sheet and still have a relatively neutral to stable outlook there. But, uh, you know, I just would say, and it's more of an advisory of, you know, sit tight and, and some caution here and now and watching this rally probably play out in the coming weeks. So good, good to have something to talk about at least for wheat, right? We are really quiet in the, in the winter months, but, you know, here we are, maybe a little earlier than normal, starting to get a little action. So So that's kind of my wheat watchouts for the near and long term, Nicole.
Nicole Thomas: Yeah, interesting. You know, and it's funny, as I kind of segue into soybeans here, and I think, you know, arguably a common theme, at least with the grains and oilseeds, is the whole export picture. And for soybeans, I would put that on the list of factors to watch as well. Obviously, anytime we get any news of potential discussions between the US and China on trade, you know, soybeans becomes a hot topic, at least for, for us in our space. I'm sure there's, there's other things that are far more pressing for both countries. But as far as our piece of the world is concerned, the soybean exports and longer-term opportunity there could get interesting. But that news definitely does its part to push soybean futures higher, which makes some of the developments today a little interesting. We had— I'm sure everyone's kind of following along with that. And I know in our space, because, you know, as we joked in the Christmas poem last year, tariffs. And looks like the Supreme Court has ruled against the usage of those tariffs, at least in a broad sweeping method. And we'll have more details on that, I'm sure, for our clients. Keep an eye on IQ. We'll put together a little write-up of what that means, what it might mean, and how those things are going to play out. But where it becomes interesting for soybeans is definitely the leverage there more or less being, you know, removed as far as using that as a tool to get commitments from China as far as soybean imports are concerned. So, you know, who knows, maybe this scenario changes that trajectory a little bit. But as we've discussed internally at McKinney, even with or without the trade piece of it, or an agreement of that sort, you can't overlook Brazil's monster soybean crop this year, as well as the investment China has made within Brazil over, you know, call it the last 7 to 10 years to source more of their agricultural products from Brazil. So really kind of following how that export demand trends pretty much from here through the rest of the marketing year, whether or not China comes in and makes more purchases, whether not they began buying any new crop beans and looking at it for future commitments. And then to your point, Eric, that price piece, because we're, you know, especially with this rally on the future side of things, our beans aren't incredibly competitive relative to Brazil right now. So in that sense, you know, probably not going to see much growth there. But that any changes of that category along the way could certainly be impactful to price. And then of course, you know, we just had the USDA Ag Outlook Conference. And that's where we get at least USDA's first look at what they expect for acreage. And indeed, they are projecting that soybean acreage will increase to 85 million this year, which, you know, seems plausible considering such a low acreage number last year. But time will tell, especially when you start looking at the breakeven scenarios for beans versus corn. It seems a bit more attainable on the corn side than on, as it relates to soybeans. But time will tell. And I would say, you know, any, any change, either lowering or increasing that acreage after the farmer surveys and in the prospective plantings report, at the end of March will give us, could give us either a little support for prices or a little bit of pressure or additional pressure as South America's crop becomes more meaningful in the global scheme of things. So that's what I would say are, you know, kind of the main factors to follow for soybeans. And since we're on the subject of the complex, looking at soybean oil, I mean, Broken record, Nicole. Biofuel policy, biofuel policy, biofuel policy. And if you're wondering what got the market active the beginning of the week, there's two things that happened just in the last few days that added a few cents a pound to those prices. That first one being that biofuel policy, and the latest rumor is that we're going to have an official EPA proposal in the coming days or weeks. And although that still won't be the official legislation, and that likely won't come out until later this year, it would and arguably has thus far provided some degree of confidence within the biofuel industry to crank up that production. So, you know, obviously, with some of the changes in the proposal that we are aware of, including the requirement of USMCA feedstock to get the full credit, tax credit, has certainly been supportive of prices and got us, you know, back comfortably into the 50s per pound. And this piece has gotten us to the mid-50s per pound. And what has yet to be determined, the one piece that we aren't certain of just yet, is what the actual mandate will be. Last year's proposal was 5.61 billion gallons, but the market has been speculating it could be reduced down to as low as 5.2 billion gallons based on expected small refinery exemptions moving forward and maybe adjusting that mandate to compensate for that. So we'll see, we'll see what we get there. So that's the direct fundamental impact. Outside of the fundamentals, or I guess you can make a loose indirect tie there. The other thing I'd say to watch closely as it relates to soybean oil price dynamics is the ongoing situation with Iran. This week we saw that activity there and a lot of back and forth and suggestion of military involvement on the US side pushed those crude oil prices considerably higher into the mid-$60s per barrel. You know, they've really been trading plenty of supply and arguably lackluster demand and hanging out in the $50s per barrel for an extended period of time. But that news, obviously anything related to a major oil producer, even if it isn't necessarily coming here, as a matter of fact, they're a bigger, far, far significant player as it relates to Chinese imports of crude oil globally. But pushing those values higher into the $60s per barrel arguably added another couple of cents to the soybean oil futures values and got us, you know, up there closer to the $0.58 pound level. So, uh, your guess is as good as mine as to how it's all going to play out. If military action is going to be taken, to what degree, for how long, how Iran responds, uh, is anyone's guess at this point. But what we can say with confidence is if the activities there continue to pull crude oil higher, expect a likewise effect on, on soybean oil futures. So soy complex getting kind of interesting, especially the, the two components of that complex, uh, most meaningful to our clients But to kind of wrap this up before I hand this back to you, Eric, for sugar, corn, interesting there, you know, just like soybean oil, those long-term, but in the case of corn, more out in the future, long-term consumption dynamics within the ethanol space put biofuel legislation on the list of factors to watch for impact on corn prices as well. Not likely to have a meaningful impact in '25, '26. But it could set up to be impactful for the next marketing year for '26-'27 in the form of more corn usage for that category, especially with the ethanol producers now seemingly getting a pathway to participate in the SAF market, be it, albeit for the domestic market, which is still fairly shouldn't even say fairly, is extremely small. But just as importantly, as we're seeing on the renewable diesel side of things, that export opportunity to Europe where the SAF market is a bit more developed than here in the US could certainly have an influence on prices there. But again, more of a longer-term thing. But if we're looking for stuff in the near term, just like is the case for soybeans and acreage. That prospective plantings report at the end of March has the potential to have some impact on the futures markets. USDA's Ag Outlook Conference pegged corn acreage at 94 million, down considerably from '25-'26, which everyone expected. I mean, we just, that was an incredibly substantive amount of acreage. For this marketing year, but it arguably came in a bit shy of market expectations. The market was looking for something a little closer to 95, maybe even 96 million acres. Again, kind of speaking to that breakeven opportunity for producers and maybe a lean more towards, towards corn. So that will certainly be something to watch as it relates to next year's supply and you know, what we're working with as a production possibility relative to what should be pretty substantive carry-in coming out of '25-'26. The other big report that gets a little less attention, especially when it's, it's coupled with prospective plantings, the Grain Stocks report, that also is out at the end of March, and that will give us some clues to that notorious feed consumption number. And my ongoing suspicion is that USDA is overstating that consumption in that category, especially when you consider our commercial livestock inventories really doesn't scream great growth for consumption in that category. And, you know, even though we're not hearing as much about avian flu this year, particularly as it relates to egg availability and prices. That's one that consumers can see right before their eyes. But avian flu has— it continues to be a bit of an issue. And it's been fairly widespread in the broiler segment, with cases reported throughout the Southeast over the last few months. And those birds are the ones we're trying to fatten up for market, so to speak. So, you know, in terms of corn for feed consumption, that segment is going to represent a considerable share of what is fed to commercial livestock, period. And specifically within that kind of our poultry, both the layers and the broiler segments. So those would be the two big ones that I would watch for corn. So that leaves us with sugar. Eric, what do you think on sugar?
Eric Thornton: Yeah, I'll close it out quickly with sugar since I think we're getting close to time here. Aside from maybe the strictly supply and demand fundamentals, which again, hey, everything's still leaning bearish, you know, world number 11 market, 5-year lows, domestic number 16 prices, 33-ish cents a pound. Haven't seen those values in years. Very soft consumption, adequate stocks and supply of both beet and cane sugar. But the two sort of drivers we, we really don't talk about too often year in and year out could shake things up as it relates to how the 2027 market plays out. And that is forfeitures and reformulation. I think two things that are and a bit of the unknown, but one may be more likely. Well, I should actually pause and say they're both on the more likely side than in years past.
Nicole Thomas: Exactly.
Eric Thornton: The forfeiture side especially, I'd put it at even a, you know, better than a 50-50 coin flip at this point, especially knowing that, hey, these beat stocks are exorbitant now with the new loan rates effectively reaching 33 to 34, 34.5 cents a pound once storage is factored in, they're certainly, I think, gonna be a pretty good proposition if the beet guys aren't able to successfully market or deplete their stocks. If there's any sort of turnaround in consumption, which again leads me to the second point of reformulation. And again, with demand soft, you know, prices have been coming down in recent years. You know, sugar, I'd say at least in the land of sweetened products, is maybe on the better side of the equation when it comes to Maha or, you know, not in the ultra-processed foods category, like say corn-derived sweetener or high fructose corn syrup. You know, any sort of major reformulation we see at any point here in '26 for, later this year into 2027 could change the dynamics within just one headline, right? So that's sort of the unknown that, okay, you know, if we see some major brand or major SKU switch out and go into sugar, you know, that just changes the dynamics or, you know, maybe starts to offer a little bit of support potentially for sugar in the long run. So those are two things I'd watch out for. Again, I think forfeitures look, look very likely, you know, probably later this year we see that announced, if at all. And the, you know, the reformulation I think is just a little bit more in the dark. Yeah, but definitely more of a real risk probability and risk for our sugar buyers out there than, you know, years past.
Nicole Thomas: Totally agree with that one, Eric. Interesting times in the food industry. Interesting times.
Eric Thornton: That it is.
Nicole Thomas: Well, I think, I think we gave them enough to noodle. So with that, let's, let's wrap it up. And thanks, Eric, as always, for your insight. It's always great. And to wrap up this weekly Hot Commodity Podcast, I want to thank everyone for listening in, as always. And also, as always, as Mike would say, live with an attitude of gratitude. Until the next time, take care, everyone.