Michael Caughlan: McKinney Flavelle's Hot Commodity Podcast Series. Empowering clients with commercial intelligence, supply chain expertise, and risk management solutions. Good afternoon, everybody. My name is Mike Coughlin, President and CEO of McKinney Flavelle, and today is February 27th, 2026. And welcome to our Hot Commodity Podcast Series. We're live from the Sweetener Colloquium Right, Kevin? Are we live?
Kevin Combs: I think we kind of missed out. I must have fallen asleep. I got really tired at the end of this thing.
Michael Caughlan: I know it was so busy. Well, those that went to the colloquium know that that's not true because it's Friday now and it ended on Wednesday. So yeah, we're not live, but we wanted to give you a recap of what happened this year with the Sweetener Colloquium. And it was just this last weekend and through the first part of the week and very lovely Champions Gate, Florida, Kevin. It was sunny, rainy, windy, and all the above.
Kevin Combs: We got a little bit of everything and started out great. Got in a little golf, went in early so I could golf the day before all the activity got started, which was a blast. The weather was perfect. And then we got to Monday and kind of, well, even a little Sunday morning, right? Sunday morning was rainy.
Michael Caughlan: Sunday was the bad weather.
Kevin Combs: Yeah. Looked out the window and saw kids running from strong winds and rain coming down sideways. So it's pretty crazy to see the weather change so quickly. And then Monday, what, we were probably 20, 25 degrees cooler than even Sunday.
Michael Caughlan: So yeah, so it was the universe was forcing us to make sure we were in the presentations and all our meetings and weren't jealous that we were inside because it was hot outside, but it wasn't.
Kevin Combs: Yeah, I wish being able to have meetings outside in the sun, but that was not in store for Monday and Tuesday.
Michael Caughlan: So let's dive into it. For those that don't know, the Sweetener Colloquium is an annual event and it brings both users and producers of sweeteners, sugar and corn sweetener together. So, you know, we had a lot of the food manufacturing companies and the folks that produce the ingredient to sell them. Were there. They had plenty of presentations. The topics this year are very similar topics to previous years, but the international sugar market. So talking about the number 11 market, talking about tariffs, talking about the North American sweetener outlook. So our very own Craig Ruffalo was on that panel talking about corn sweeteners, the economy, and our very own demand and nutritional trends. And even some other commodities on the last day. So trade policy tariffs, oh my, it was jam-packed. And Kevin, I'm gonna ask you, where do you wanna start?
Kevin Combs: Well, Mike, I think we should probably start with consumption because there's a lot of talk about GLP-1 use, the SNAP programs and everything that kind of affected both commodities. So I think that was kind of the one thing that was universal in pretty much every discussion out there. And of course, was discussed by many of the panelists as well.
Michael Caughlan: Absolutely. So yeah, I mean, GLPs were big. As they continue to grow, it's really something that is starting to impact sweetener demand for sure, wouldn't you say?
Kevin Combs: I would say so. And certainly, you know, we've seen that across the board where, you know, a lot of commodities are seeing lower demand. And, you know, I think we see that with, just in the business in general. And so a lot of companies are trying to adjust and trying to come up with stuff. And one of the things that just has floored me and a lot of the discussions I had with my customers was new product introductions and coming out, you know, with products that have higher protein as a result of the demand from consumers, but also I think adjusting to the upside-down pyramid, which What really amazed me this meeting was someone telling me that in a South Park episode from like 2014, they turned the food pyramid upside down. So they were predicting this was going to happen.
Michael Caughlan: They know the future.
Kevin Combs: 12 years ago. Yeah.
Michael Caughlan: So they, they, they— I guess we could just go back to old episodes of South Park and figure out what's going to happen next.
Kevin Combs: Maybe. There's been a few times they have predicted things.
Michael Caughlan: So, well, one thing's for sure that, that was talked about is just the growth in those drugs, the cost of them coming down. I think something came out while we were there about how the major producers of these GLPs were reducing or slashing prices starting next year. So we expect that to obviously continue, and that is definitely going to impact our world as folks are, are eating less and eating differently, to your point about the protein. And so certain segments are definitely gonna have a challenge as far as growth or maintaining their consumers. And a lot of the snacking business or sweet business, it's gonna be tough.
Kevin Combs: Yeah, I think one of the other big ones was just that could continue to become a problem for the sweetener industry was the SNAP programs and all the states that are trying to not allow high caloric goods, sodas, confections, things like that benefiting from the SNAP money. So it'll be interesting. I think we're up to 18 states and counting.
Michael Caughlan: Wow, that is definitely— Okay, anything else on demand? We'll move over to some of the other topics.
Kevin Combs: I think we better move on 'cause there's a lot to talk about.
Michael Caughlan: Yeah, I think tariffs. Yeah, tariffs, let's go there. What did you hear as far as what was talked about on tariffs?
Kevin Combs: Well, tariffs obviously on my way down because I went early on Friday, you know, we got the news. So I kind of missed it other than, when I landed and started browsing news stories and see what was in my email, catch up on any work, see if there's anything I had to cover. And of course there was a ton of emails going back and forth about tariffs and trying to get some things put up on our IQ portal, which we did. But, you know, the Supreme Court removed the tariffs under the IEPA regulations that the Trump administration used. And so it was off. And I think about the time I got done reading that article, there was another article stating we have a 15% new tariff. So it sounds like that one is a temporary measure that he can use for up to like 150 days. So I think this is still just a, still a big negotiating ploy and trying to do a lot of bilateral agreements on this and, And now I'm seeing some articles stating that there's some pressure for companies or countries not to try to renegotiate or there would be consequences. So who knows? Yeah, who knows? But I'm just, you know, I think there's a lot of companies out there also wondering, like, you know, are they going to be able to get some of this tariff that they paid back? And of course, you know, how far does that trickle down to the people that also had to pay for tariffs after the fact? I'm guessing there's going to be a lot of legal issues and it's going to take quite some time to determine if any of that really takes place in a hurry.
Michael Caughlan: Okay. How about anything on the number 11s or 16s or just the domestic market in general? I was in some of the presentations about the number 11, similar stuff that you've talked about, Kevin, with Brazil obviously being the most important country to follow and ranges on the number 11 market similar to what we've said in that 12 to 17 type range. And, you know, the big question of, you know, what are they going to do to lower the cost of production and, you know, that shift between ethanol in these various countries and sugar production. And then there was also some discussion that you've brought up is how corn ethanol in some of these countries is taking away from sugar.
Kevin Combs: Yeah, there's definitely a lot of conversation about the world market, you know, that's bringing a lot of the optimism to the sugar users and why prices should remain low in 2027, similar to 2026 levels. And certainly, you can make some strong arguments that world sugar market is going to stay in these mid to lower teens. I don't even see 17 on the horizon with all that's going on right now. And, you know, we're expecting Brazil to have a really strong crop again, which they don't get that going until at the end of April, you know, really in earnest, it's really mid-May. So with those expectations of a strong crop again, and again, competition from ethanol produced from corn and having a big corn crop underway, it's really hard to see anything bearish in the world sugar market at this point in time. And of course we all know high prices cure high prices and low prices cure low prices. Oh, I did it again.
Michael Caughlan: Oh my God, you did it. That's a, isn't that Craig Ruffalo saying? He always says high prices cure high prices.
Kevin Combs: Yeah, but when you look at sugar and cane, it's a ratoon crop and there's, you know, they don't replant this but every 5, 6 years in most areas. So some cases even longer. It's gotta be something to get a grower to switch. And I don't know, I just don't see anything evident in the market now. And, you know, of course we'll see what happens in the Asia crop region when monsoonal rains hit this summer. You know, a lot can happen and Mother Nature can have different plans than the rest of us at times. So we'll see if anything develops. But business-wise, it just looks like it's gonna stay under pressure. For quite some time.
Michael Caughlan: How about the overall feeling? I mean, when you go into the colloquium, it's really, you know, depending upon the year, what was the sentiment for either price discovery or, you know, not to share too much, but sure. What, what can we give them a flavor of?
Kevin Combs: You know, I think everyone still looks at the main things, drivers, and everything in the market today is still bearish. And I think some people are looking from a producer side is starting to look look at things and say, hey, you know what, we've seen a lot of changes to the market. And we've had, you know, Yonkers refinery close, we've had the beet plant in Brawley close, we have tariffs in place. And under the Big Beautiful Bill Act, we have higher loan rates for sugar producers. And all of those things kind of— and we've even had some consolidation on marketing groups. So So when people look at all that, they're kind of saying, hey, this market is a little bit stronger. And also, we've had some cold weather in Florida and Brazil that could have an impact on maybe a little bit on this Florida crop. Louisiana's crop was done already pretty much. So that didn't really get impacted, but could have a big impact on the next crops. So just, you know, there's a lot of things happening that are tightening things up. We know we still have strong stocks, we still have weak demand. And so I think just makes for a differing in opinion in what could happen and therefore a difference in opinion on what prices buyers want to buy and what sellers want to sell at. So I'd say in general, I think this is going to lengthen things out. This kind of, the colloquium starts negotiations many years. In this case, it was, I think, you know, a chance for buyers and sellers to share their ideas. And I think there's a pretty good gap between those ideas at this point.
Michael Caughlan: Yeah. Like you had mentioned before, you know, we're going to be watching how demand happens over the next several months and how those stocks, beat stocks in particular, remain.
Kevin Combs: So no doubt. No doubt.
Michael Caughlan: Excellent. Okay, Kevin, anything else before we let people go on with their, their wonderful weekend?
Kevin Combs: I think they should go out and have fun, rest up. We all deserve a little rest this weekend after a busy, busy few days. And let's see what tomorrow brings.
Michael Caughlan: Excellent. All right. We're going to go ahead and wrap this one up. As I always like to say, live with an attitude of gratitude. Enjoy every minute, moment with your friends and family. And until our next podcast, take care, everybody. That concludes this Hot Commodity podcast. Episode. Log into McKinney-Flavelle's IQ Ingredient Intelligence platform for in-depth information on commodities, ingredients, and market intelligence. If you're not a subscriber, visit McKinney-Flavelle.com to learn more.